
OVERVIEW

Bit-Bots have three main components, they are:
- The style of the bot itself,
- The pattern of the background, and
- The colour palette used by the Bit-Bot

Each of these components used are determined by the program. All randomization is seeded, meaning that given a specific seed the same set of Bit-Bots will be generated

STYLE

Style is chosen at random. Each of the three styles (One-Eyed, Cyclops, Beast) have a weight designated in the main data file, such that Cyclops Bots are rarer than One-Eyed Bots, and Beast Bots are rarer than Cyclops Bots. The template of each style is defined within a PNG file, which the program will iterate over and replace the placeholder colours with those of the colour palette. For the body specifically, each colour chosen will also be given two variants, one darker and one lighter, both generated via the program. This lets the Style component have a greater depth and variation in colour, as to prevent it from looking flat (see comparison.png for an example of a Bit-Bot with and without this variation). Using Seed 123456 with the Old Seed System gives the rarest Style a 14.7% chance of occurring and the most commmon a 51.2% chance

PATTERN

Pattern is chosen at random. There are 14 background patterns, each supporting 1-3 colours in a similar manner as a Bit-Bot's Style. They too have weightings, with more complex patterns generally occurring in less Bit-Bots. Using Seed 123456 with the Old Seed System gives the rarest Pattern a 1.2% chance of occurring and the most common a 12.5% chance

COLOUR

Colour is chosen at random. Colour weighting is determined by a seperate program which also accepts a randomization seed. Colour weightings are such that most colours will have high weights and the remaining few will have lower weights, making it so that there will be a few rare colours per seed. Three colours are chosen for the Style, defined as Body Colour, Accent A and Accent B, and 1-3 colours for the Pattern, defined as Background Colour A, B, and C. Note that duplicate colours within the same Bit-Bot can occur, which can lead to some interesting patterns. Available colours consist of the standard HTML keyworded colours, and using Seed 123456 with the Old Seed System leads to the rarest colours (total of 1 in Style and 3 in Pattern) a 0.1333% and 0.1955% occurrence rate respectively, while the most common colours (total of 1 in Style and Pattern each) a 1.1667% and 1.3685% occurrence rate respectively

